Project settings file (#1260)
VirtusLab/scala-cli: website/docs/reference/root-dir.md

---
title: Project root directory
sidebar_position: 5
---

## Usage

Scala CLI needs a root directory:
  - to write mapped sources
  - to write class files
  - for Bloop

## Setting root directory

> First of all Scala CLI checks every passed input (in the same order in which inputs were passed) for the `project.settings.scala` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, Scala CLI checks every passed input (in the same order in which inputs were passed) for the `project.settings.scala` file:
```

- If the `project.settings.scala` file is passed explicitly as a **source**, Scala CLI sets its parent directory as the root directory.
- If the input is a **directory**, Scala CLI looks for the `project.settings.scala` inside this directory. If the file is found, Scala CLI sets the passed directory as the root directory.

> If more than one `project.settings.scala` file is found, Scala CLI uses only **the first one** to set the root directory and raises **warning** saying which one was used.

Reviewer 2: > **the first one**

We should mention how order is determined.

If no `project.settings.scala` files are found, Scala CLI sets the root directory based on the first file/directory input:
- If the input is a **directory**, it is set as the root directory. 
- If the input is a **file**, Scala CLI sets its parent directory as the root directory. 

If more then one file/directory input has ben passed Scala CLI raises the warning saying which directory has been set as the project root directory.

> If no `project.settings.scala` files are found and no file/directory inputs have ben passed, Scala CLI sets **cwd** as the project root directory.

Reviewer: I think `cwd` isn't known widely enough as an abbreviation to be used in our docs, let's state this more descriptively:
```suggestion
If no `project.settings.scala` files are found and no file/directory inputs have ben passed, Scala CLI sets the current working directory (where Scala CLI was invoked from) as the project root directory.
```
